All types need to be able to jump onto a tier1 platform, but not onto a tier2 or over a wall


------------------------------- Warrior
Make this a quadruped.  Not thin like a horse, but stockier.  Have the hind legs shorter, like a hyena or giraffe

1.5 times taller than standard

Give this a strong forward charge, short bursts of speed in a forward direction

Standard jump height, a bit extra forward distance.  Almost no back jump, a small amount of side jump

Heavy weapons, armor, shields

Weapons:
    Various large heavy melee
    Javelin (somewhere between a javelin and a pike)
        When in melee, it's held like a sword.  Lots stab, not much other damage
        When in ranged, it reverses in the hand.  When thrown, the wrist must be pointed backward (can also stab while held in this position)
    Ball and chain
        Has longer reach (let it be extended/retracted)
    Scythe
        Use is like an actual scythe, mowing them like wheat
    War Scythe
        This is more of a pole arm with a curved blade at the end
    Dual Buckler :)
        Monkey with cymbals smashing skulls (if they do this, then unlock a special skill that they can equip)
    

Specials:
    Knock back


Tiny enemies like small spiders should be no consequence.  The warrior should auto stomp them when you walk over them


Playing as this should feel physically explosively powerful.  No fear, just square up to the enemy, set your face, get it done


------------------------------- Hunter
Standard size, standard mobility

Jump a little higher normal (but still not high enough to reach a tier2 ledge)
    Bullet time is longer when at the top of a jump
    Bullet time shouldn't be simple on/off at the top.  It should automatically start to activate around 80% of jump height, full bullet time at top, then fade back on the way down
    May need some machine learning to not activate bullet time when they are just jumping up to a ledge


Weaker melee weapons, Excellent ranged weapons:
    Bow & Arrow
        Long range, good aim, good damage
    Hatchet
        Medium all around
    Small sword


Playing as this should feel like you're on the outside, sniping in.  Above and around the action.  Calm


------------------------------- Shadow
Slightly shorter, high mobility

Can triple jump
    Don't let the height keep growing, but do allow for lots of direction changing mid air
    Backflip + bullet time

Limited wall run
    Only if momentum is high enough, don't do some weird auto sticking

Fun tricky weapons

Limited stealth?

Specials:
    The standard shadow abilities, aoe stuff should more effective when deployed mid jump


Maybe dodge chance could increase while moving


Playing as this should feel slippery.  Fast, mobile, high skill level.  High risk, high reward


------------------------------- Mage
Average height, mobility

Jumps are floaty.  Somewhere between an uncontrolled parabola and a jetpack


Average melee or ranged
    Pain stick
        Sort of a light saber, does a bunch of elemental damage.  Some chain lightning/stun effects
    Wands
    Blast ball
        Held in hand, so very short melee weapon.  Powerful aoe effects
    Telekinetic
        Pick up an enemy and bash others with it 
        Smaller enemies will be affected more
        Trigger to select, they will move according to your hand motion
        A lot of games only grab one joint.  Have this grab multiple near where you grab, pulling outward.  Strength of spring falls if farther from the center of grab
        This won't be a long term levitation, just a pick up and throw
        With some practice, you could throw them straight up, grab them again and slam them down


Specials:
    Shield


Playing as this should have feel elementally powerful.  You're bending the world as you please, a mana fountain



------------------------------- Artificer
Shorter, slower, small bursts of speed

Uses a jetpack.  Require both hands pointed down to steer.  So very mobile while airborn to compensate for slower ground speed

Specials:
    Build things
    Swarm Bots :)
        Maybe even gesture certain shapes to do different commands
            O   -- defense (default) - they orbit you until something gets too close
            ^   -- offense - they seek out enemies, prioritizing the direction you're looking (but once attacking, they stay on that target)
            \   -- fruit ninja whatever was slashed through, then return to previous mode


Playing as this should feel more tactical, like you have a specific device to throw at any situation.  You're outsmarting them



------------------------------- Elemental Spirit
Tiny

Doesn't walk, hovers just above the ground

Doesn't use direct weapons/armor.  All attached items are modifiers.  All damage is done with direct contact

Arms out like treading water
Arms down like a missile
Arms higher up to stop (this will be extra useful when first learning to control this char)
Steering is relationship between head, hand position, wrist orientation

Enemies need to have auras that show where they take damage and where they give out damage

Trigger button probably needs to coincide with contact to do the damage.  Otherwise, you do minimal damage, can still take damge regardless of trigger

Can pass into walls a little, but get pushed out.  Maybe start taking damage if inside floors/walls too long

Mess with sound when blasting into them


Specials:
    Yaka Arrow -- an optimal path is chosen through enemies and you follow that path.  have slight distorted whistling sounds
    Fire Tornado -- you fly tight circles around a group of enemies and it creates a flame vortex


Play as this should be pure joy.  Flitting around, doing as you please


------------------------------- Mind Controller
Small, very weak

Movement and jump based on messiah's cherub

Good stealth ability

Can possess enemies.  While possessing, it builds up damage that will be applied when you jump out of them
So while possessing, you are attacking other enemies, then when you jump out the host takes damage built up damage

Can only possess by jumping into their back

Do the same health steal that messiah used

(things like spider nests would be difficult to implement)


Very low damage weapons.  Just enough to finish something off
    Butter Knife
    Sling Shot
    Bolo balls


Specials:
    Give Present -- you give a present to another npc and they take it to the center of the nearest group.  the gift explodes
    Pacify -- when in regular form, you can pacify a group in order to get away and get hidden
    Confusion


Playing as this should be a little scared, cautious.  Requires planning


------------------------------- Puppet Master
Dual.  The player has god hands, and the puppet is a small golem

The puppet will auto fire when close to enemies, can be melee or ranged

Jumping is also performed automatically

This is sort of like playing the mobile game in vr, but the player can directly affect the game

Any direct manipulations would use up mana, so the golem is needed for doing most of the damage

When applying a weather effect, hold both hands around an area, creating a circle, sort of like a target reticle

God hand specials:
    Create fog
    Drop meteors
    Place a wall
    Decoys -- clip your finger with the ground, and that will be a decoy
    Pinch enemy -- this will stun an enemy
    Enhance golem -- keep the hands close to the golem.  It acts like a conduit transferring your energy into the real world (visual effect flows from hands to golem)
        Heal golem
        Damage field -- the golem has an aura that damages enemies
        Fluid suspension -- nearby enemies are sluggish, somewhat floating
        Grow -- the golem grows around 50% does extra damage, takes less damage, moves faster (looks enraged)


Not sure how this should feel.  You're kind of detached, but still responsible for your golem?


****************************************************

All of the shared weapons have a socket.  Each player type has their own types of gems that can go in those sockets
The effects have a % chance

    Warrior:
        Drain defense
        Weaken
        Life Steal

    Hunter:
        Poison
        Fear -- not sure this fits
        Explosive

    Shadow
        Extra damage
        Blind
        Explosive

    Mage
        Cold
        Flame
        Electric
        Gravity

    Artificer
        Stupidity/Disoriented (not a full on confuse, makes them forgetful, sometimes attack others)
        Gaseous/Stink (makes others increase distance from them)




Magical Escrima
    When dual yielded and the endpoints are somewhat lined up, draw an electric bezier curve between those points
    The other end caps would leak out electricity
    So they do direct blunt damage, but can also do indirect magic damage



Some weapon types should be common, even though they don't make sense for some characters.  This will help demonstrate the size/strength differences
    A dagger would feel like a short sword for shadow, but a pocket knife for warrior
    A halberd would be used one handed by warrior, but almost too heavy for shadow (hunter and artificer would use it like normal)



Give them the ability to craft their own weapon (spend some crafting potion)
    Have a CAD room where they can choose material types
    Draw components to the size/shape they want
    Attach the components together



Make the player take damage if they hit themself with their blade

